So let's talk about what is messaging and why we actually need it.
Messaging is basically a form of communication with each other from person to person from application
to application from a system to system.
Basically anything but for the software world it provides a mechanism for loosely coupled integration
of software or application components systems and even multiple systems all together.
So now let's talk about what is a message itself.
We exchange messages while we talk to each other.
So what do you mean by that is in our daily lives we exchange messages from one person to the other.
So let's suppose that you're talking to your spell's your friend or anyone else you're simply exchanging
messages with each other.
So you asking a question you're trying to learn something or you're simply giving out some information
to your colleague or a friend.
This is a simple form of message exchange.
And again we're simply surrounded by different ways of messaging.
In all of our daily lives from e-mail messages to instant messages everything so the simplest analogy
for a message would be like a text message instant message in our whatsapp Skype or any other instant
messaging application and so on.
And again for this software world if you ever use so pro-law call Dan you were familiar with the message
header and the body concept but this is in a different form.
So soap messages were exchanged and shared through the envelopes of soap messages.
So the envelope would be containing a message to a system or and other software.
Then the software system receiving the message will take an action regarding the contents of that message.
So this was how the so protocol was working.
And it is still used today.
So a typical software message contains at least a header and the body.
These are the fundamental parts of a software message that we have and that we're going to use of course.
Let's focus more on the software aspect of messaging and how it's use in our applications and systems.
Messaging is an essential element for any kind of software and system.
It's the fundamental building block of any system any software from kernels to CPQ memory from hardware
or software.
Everything is communicated through messages in a different form in a different shape.
But whatever the reason is it is exchanged through messages.
The communication is handled in forms of messages.
So the software components again need to communicate somehow to do their actual work.
Give you a better picture to understand yes you can think of our applications our software or a simple
application that you wrote.
So in this application you of course have some methods some functions to do some actual work for the
work methods we'll call some other methods or other applications and you might of course have some remote
methods remote application calls and you might how HTP Collines and servers and many more but these
forms in the essence of them exchange messages again because an application or simply method has to
talk to some other matters some other application in a forum and that forum is in its essence is a message.
But as you see the flaw here.
These are all synchronous forms of messaging.
So to give you an example when you click on a button of a UI application of some form of UI you have
to get a response from the system you're clicking on that button to do something.
And of course you're going to have to receive a response from the system.
This is highly natural.
Very natural.
But these kind of communication is mostly synchronous not asynchronous and not loosely coupled.
And of course this is not designed around the concept of actual messaging and messaging have to be loosely
coupled.
So again why do we need message protocols and other things to communicate since we have functions methods
other ways of communication are already.
So now let's look at an example in the software rural to give a better understanding.
Let's suppose that there is an e-commerce site on Black Friday with like millions of customer orders
coming from different countries different regions and with different shopping carts.
Just consider that example.
And then suppose that there is a telecom operator with millions of customer messages to process and
so on.
So these platforms might just crash because of the load of the customers and the messages the transactions
of the users that they have to process.
Think about that.
This is a huge log on their system and suppose that they're just trying to process all these things
all at once it's near to impossible because if say were it time consuming and resource oriented task
these task has to be processed separately and independently from each other.
So what happens when we need to communicate and when we need to exchange loosely asynchronously and
progressively instead of processing all the messages from customers all the orders from customers all
at once we somehow need to queue these messages.
Q These transactions and process them one by one because otherwise that's going to be a very huge load
on our systems.
To overcome that advanced messaging protocols are coming to the rescue.
These protocols provide us the actual type of a message for communications.
So you can simply encapsulate any kind of information inside a message with these protocols as simple
as that.
And you're getting advanced messaging structures to flow your messages through the system such as cues
topics channels exchange and much more depending on the protocol that you're using for your system.
So these are the fundamental concepts and understandings of a messaging system and what it means inside
the software world.
I hope that I gave you a better understanding and a good picture of how we use and why we use messaging
in the next video.
We're going to talk about the messaging protocols.
There are benefits pros and cons and so on.
So I'll see on the next with the.